# Web Development 2 Course Notes

These WEBD-2008 Web Development 2 notes were built using the [Jekyll static-site generator](https://jekyllrb.com/) with the [Just the Docs theme](https://pmarsceill.github.io/just-the-docs/). 

The published notes are hosted on GitHub Pages here: [stungeye.github.io/Web-Dev-2-Notes/](https://stungeye.github.io/Web-Dev-2-Notes/)

## Quick Start Guide for Other Instructors

* The notes are written using Markdown syntax and can be edited online.
* The course notes consist of modules written as `.md` files in the `docs` folder.
* The sidebar menu and the module tables of contents are auto-generated. 
* Modules can be a single files or can be separated into sub-topics across multiple files.  
* A small amount of custom CSS and Javascript has been added to theme.

Each of these topics is covered below.

## Writing Notes in Markdown and Editing Notes Online

The notes are written using the [Kramdown-variant of Markdown Syntax](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/quickref.html). This means the notes are stored as plain text in this repositor and converted into HTML by Jekyll. There is a small amount of meta-data at the top of each markdown file that [Jekyll calls front matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/). 

Markdown allows us to easy add typographic formatting, links, images, and tables to the notes.  Everything you need to know about Markdown can be seen at [the Kramdown Quick Reference](https://kramdown.gettalong.org/quickref.html)).

Some example Markdown:

```markdown
# This is a Heading

## And a Sub-Heading

This is a paragraph that includes some **bold** and *italized* text and a [link](http://stungeye.com).

* Item
* List
```

Which outputs:

> # This is a Heading
>
> ## And a Sub-Heading
> 
> This is a paragraph that include some **bold** and *italized* text and a [link](http://stungeye.com).
> 
> * Item
> * List

## The File and Folder Structure of the Repository

All of the course note modules can be found in the `docs` folder as Markdown files with `.md` file extensions.

The `docs` folder is structured like this:

```
- docs
  - javascript
  - other
  - php
```

If you look in the `javascript`, `other` or `php` folders you will find a sub-folder for each module. These module sub-folders each contain one or more Markdown files along with the module images. The file-system order of theses folders and sub-folders does not affect the other in which modules are listed in the sidebar menu.

## Organizing Modules in the Sidebar Menu

The order in which modules are listed in the sidebar menu is controlled using the [Jekyll front matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) found at the top of each markdown file. The front-matter looks like this:

```
---
title: Module Title
nav_order: 5
---
```

The `title` specified will be the link title used in the sidebar menu. The `nav_order` controls the order in which modules appear in the sidebar menu.

## Adding an Autogenerated Table of Contents to a Module

You can add an autogenerated Table of Contents to any module. This only works well if you break your module into sections and sub-section using level 2 and level 3 headers (created in markdown with two or three hash `#` marks).

The code used to add the table of contents is as follows. This should go directly after the front matter:

```markdown
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
# Main Title for Module 
{: .no_toc }

A short introductory paragraph for the module to come before the table of contents.

## Table of Contents
{: .no_toc }

1. TOC
{:toc}

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
```

The generated table of contents will replace the two lines that read `1. TOC` and `{:toc}`.

The `{: .no_toc }` statement marks headings that shouldn't be included in the table of contents. 

The `<!-- pettier... -->` start and end tag prevents this code from being broken by the Prettier code formatting plugin for VS Code. The blank line above the prettier-ignore end tag is crucial. 

## Organizing a Large Module into Sub-Topics

## Customization That Extend the Just the Docs Theme

## Editing the Notes Locally with a Live Preview
